what's happening in the insurance space
because something very interesting is a
foot premiums and policies are rising so
let's try and understand the impact for
uh you the consumer as well as what it
means for companies like icsi Lombard we
have with us Sanjay data Chief
underwriting claims reinsurance and
acturial at ICC Lombard General
Insurance joining in on the show right
now Sanjay hi good morning great to have
you on the show uh got a little delayed
I guess because of technical troubles
but Sanjay you know as inflation
continues to be the top concern for
insurers according to Global Insurance
uh you know the premium growth will
return back to 2.1% in the fiscal help
us understand what's your view on the
same what is the overall trend that you
see on pricing across products and do
you think we're in an upward trajectory
now yes uh you know no you know to that
extent that there are certain products
where pricing you know will undergo some
changes I mean know those are worldwide
Trends you know there have been products
which you know deal with flood
earthquake and various other natural
catastrophes you know there uh there is
some rate hardening happening across the
space because of reinsurance rates you
know hardening a bit across the uh Globe
but apart from that uh you know in India
M
Health which are mostly you know availed
by the retail customer you know there is
uh
you know some hardening on you know the
a little bit of hardening on the health
side because of covid after postco you
know there's some price increases which
are happening but um you know but the
motor you know premiums continue to be
competitive especially on the vehicle
damage portion uh the third party
premiums of course are are you know
given up you know rate increases are
given after some time and that to uh due
to after regulatory process so that also
has been you know quite quite stable for
some time
Mr Data morning now going forward
Insurance reforms may see PE funding
surge in the sector as the irdai has
raised the cap limit and allowed pees to
be promoters is this going to be a key
SE uh Catalyst for sector growth help us
understand what the lateral impact is
going to be yes you know this is of
course uh you know a big change in terms
of uh the manner in which capital comes
in and uh obviously of you know
Insurance penetration requires you know
Capital you know because you know the
more we transfer risk to insurance
companies we we need more Capital to
cover those risk and forms of capital
you know which which includes P now you
know having broad-based it uh you know
is a welcome step you know now you know
we we are able to Avail you know capital
from all you know responsible you know
sectors and that's something which the
insurance sector you know looks forward
to there's been a speed of changes in
regulatory uh you know AR architecture
and you know one of the key things is
allowing more companies to come in
allowing you know a lot of us to Avail
more Capital so that we can penetrate
more that's the overall arching goal
which I think regulator has placed in
front of all of
us good morning sir if you could also
talk a little bit more specifically
about uh you know the draft guidelines
which are looking to cap commissions for
both life as well as non life some say
this you know this is going to be
fantastic for Tech aggregators the like
of policy Bazar what can this really
mean for insurance sector at large where
the penetration is still quite
low yes you know one of the key uh you
know the whole underlying you know you
know philosophy behind you know you know
making the uh expenses of management
across all products is to give room
leway to insurance companies to be able
to see which which products require you
know you know more uh you know effort in
distribution the ones which do not
require more effort you can pay down you
know distribution cost there and you
know play it across all products so this
is a key reform you know uh allowing the
insurance companies to be able to see
where we would need more distribution
cost especially the Innovative and the
you know the the areas of you know
products where we require more awareness
creation more distribution channels to
be created of course various forms of
channels require remuneration and you
know that's something which each you
know distribution channel will you know
look forward to in terms of you know
where it plays out in terms of products
but uh all in all it's it's a key reform
and this is something the insurance
sector had been looking forward to
hopefully you know
uh once it you know gets implemented
it'll give us a lot of room to maneuver
to be able to manage uh expenses in a
manner that it increases penetration and
also you know kind of helps us to you
know bring down you know commissions
over the long run you know so that the
products become much more customer
centry so will you allow me to ask this
one question if the regulator is doing
all it can to help the insurance
companies and reduce expenses then why
is it that we the public at the same
time are also hearing of insurance
companies plans to hike premiums for
whether it's motor insurance whether it
is health insurance and at a time when
there is already pressure on the wallet
and the penetration is
low you know there are you know you know
you know two parts of the two sides of
the coin you know what you know you have
you have to sell products which are
viable and sustainable a lot of the
product costs you know don't only come
from distribution that's getting you
know rationalized lot of it comes from
the fact that underlying you know you
know drivers of course let's take you
know claims cost you know especially the
healthcare sector we've seen inflation
you know housing you know
uh you know around double digit you know
for some time now postco you know it's
also increased a lot there's a lot of uh
structural shifts in the way you know
people are accessing health care and all
of that all these uh all this leads to
you know cost increases and once you
have these cost increases you have to
make sure that the products which we
price uh takes care of these costs and
that's one of the key ingredients of
increases there are certain areas where
we do get efficiencies of scale and as
we you know get more penetration
especially our operating cars as we use
digitalization much more we' be able to
be much more competitive on you know
being able to bring down cost of
operations that's one key areas of focus
you know for all insurance companies
including the regulator digitalization
will help to bring down cost so both the
kinds of you know the forces are at work
at times there are increases at times we
are able to maintain prices for a very
long time so in health you know during
the co period a lot of companies
maintain prices and so that that was one
big big key you think even on motor and
other places you know prices were stable
for a long time especially on the third
party and so you know at times you know
you will have uh these increases but
this is wh in order to make the product
sustainable so that we are able to offer
products in scale and to a large number
of uh you know consumers and so that
they are able to Avail the benefit when
some catastrophe or some serious event
like a pandemic occurs or a flood and
earthquake occurs you know that that's
the whole purpose of
vitation San great to have you on the
show and uh we'll catch up again soon
this was a rather truncated
conversation thank you very much it was
pleasure you know being on this panel
okay great that's the word coming in
from icsa Lombard